Upper Tribunal
(Immigration and Asylum Chamber)
Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
THE IMMIGRATION ACTS
Heard at Birmingham CJC
Decision
&
Reasons
Promulgated
On 21 November 2019
On 8 November 2019
Before
DEPUTY UPPER TRIBUNAL JUDGE O’RYAN
Between
MR D A
(ANONYMITY DIRECTION MADE)
Appellant
and
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE HOME DEPARTMENT
Respondent
Representation:
For the Appellant:
Mr Sharif, Fountain Solicitors
For the Respondent: Mr Mills, Senior Home Office Presenting Officer
DECISION AND REASONS
1.
This is the Appellant’s appeal against the decision of Judge of the First-tier
Tribunal Boylan-Kemp MBE dated 2 May 2019 dismissing the Appellant’s
appeal against the Respondent’s decision of 23 November 2018 refusing
his human rights and protection claim.
© CROWN COPYRIGHT 2019Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
2. The Appellant is a national of Iraq of Kurdish origin and from Sulamaniyah
in the IKR. He gave an account that he was at risk of serious harm in the
IKR by reason of his family and extended tribe being in a feud with another
tribe in the IKR. The Appellant was not able to give many details of the
origins of the feud but stated that one family member had been killed as a
result of it and that he himself had experienced two incidents; one being
that unknown persons had fired upon a car in which he was travelling and
his cousin had been injured in the shoulder, and another occasion when
the house in which he lived was fired upon.
3. The Respondent in its decision refusing the protection claim disbelieved
the Appellant’s account that there was any feud on the grounds that the
Appellant knew very few details of the alleged feud. There was also said
to be a discrepancy as between the Appellant’s evidence in interview as to
how many occasions the Appellant experienced any problems himself
(refusal letter, para [26]) and a discrepancy between an alleged fear of his
own father (resulting from the Appellant refusing to take part in the feud)
and information given in an age assessment interview in which he had
stated that he had a good relationship with his family members (para
[31]).
4. The Appellant appealed against that decision and the matter came before
the judge at the Birmingham hearing centre on 18 March 2019. The
Appellant was represented and gave evidence. At the date of that hearing
the Appellant would have been 18 years of age. A further document was
relied upon by the Respondent at that hearing, being a EURODAC search
result, demonstrating that a person in the Appellant’s identity was
fingerprinted in Dresden in Germany on 22 March 2016. The Appellant’s
account as given in his SEF interview and confirmed in oral evidence
before the judge was that he only left Iraq in December 2017. The
Appellant denied before the judge that the person identified in the
EURODAC search was him but the judge stated that she was satisfied by
the details contained within the document, and looking at the clear
photograph on the EURODAC match, that the person fingerprinted in
Germany was indeed the Appellant.
5. The judge found at paragraph 14 onwards as follows:
“16. The evidence provided by the EURODAC document is
unequivocal. The photograph contained within the document is
clearly the Appellant who appeared before me and I have no
reason to doubt that the document relates to him. Therefore this
document upon which I am satisfied I can place significant weight
puts him in Germany on 22 March 2016. Consequently I find that
this evidence undermines the credibility of his entire account and
his credibility as a witness in his own cause and that it renders
his entire account unreliable.
2Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
17. Further I also find his inability to recall the details of the alleged
feud which caused him to leave his family and flee the country to
also not be credible. If a young man was leaving his life behind
because of his reluctance to become involved in an ongoing
family feud then I would anticipate that he would have
knowledge of what he is in fear of and so I do not find it plausible
that he would not know the details of this feud if he held such a
genuine fear. Also I note that even on his own evidence there
has been no specific risk or threat made to him which would
cause him to fear for his own safety beyond what is a more
general tribal threat and of which he cannot provide much detail.
...
18. As I have found the Appellant’s alleged reasoning for leaving Iraq
to not be credible then I also find that it is not plausible that his
family have consequently threatened him as claimed due to his
alleged desertion because of the alleged feud. Instead I find that
he has travelled to the UK with the assistance and knowledge of
his family for reasons other than escaping a risk of persecution.
As such I find that his family would therefore be able to assist
him with obtaining a copy of his identification documents and
CSID which would help facilitate his return to Iraq. I also find that
he would be able to return to the help and support of his family
there.”
The judge dismissed the Appellant’s appeal.
6. The Appellant appeals to the Upper Tribunal on grounds dated 15 May
2019 which argue very briefly that the judge erred in law at paragraphs 15
to 20 by giving inadequate reasoning for finding the Appellant’s account to
not be credible and secondly that the judge had failed to apply relevant
country guidance.
7. Permission to appeal was granted by Judge of the First-tier Tribunal Keane
on 24 June 2019. The judge stated as follows:
“The judge arguably had regard to irrelevant considerations in finding
that the Appellant had not given a credible account of events. The
judge’s findings as to the credibility were to be found at paragraphs
15 to 18 inclusive of her decision. At paragraph 15 the judge
attached weight so as to undermine the Appellant’s credibility to a
EURODAC printout provided by the Respondent which as the judge
found proved that the Appellant was photographed and printed in
Germany on 22 March 2016. The judge however did not explain why
such circumstance damaged the Appellant’s credibility. If the judge
had in mind the Appellant’s apparent failure to claim asylum in
Germany the judge arguably should have stated so. At paragraph 16
of the decision the judge again accorded weight to the EURODAC
document without stating why. At paragraph 17 of the decision the
3Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
judge stated that the judge would have anticipated that the Appellant
would have had knowledge of the alleged feud which on his case
caused him to leave his family and indeed his country. The judge
arguably substituted her own understanding of what constituted
reasonable conduct in circumstances where arguably she should not
have done so. At paragraph 18 the judge stated that it was not
plausible that the Appellant’s family have consequently threatened
him on account of his ostensible desertion and the judge was
arguably disbelieving the Appellant’s account without providing any
or adequate reasons. It was incumbent on the judge in resolving the
issue of credibility to embark upon a global assessment of the
Appellant’s credibility and to provide adequate reasons in support of a
finding that he had not done so. This the judge arguably failed to do.”
Submissions
8. Mr Sharif relies upon the grounds of appeal and the admittedly more
extensive grant of permission to appeal in support of his Appellant’s case.
9. Mr Sharif points out that the only date given in the Appellant’s account for
any particular incident was in relation to the incident when the car in
which the Appellant was travelling had been shot at. The date for that is to
be found in the SEF interview at [86] and was simply ‘2016’. The
Appellant gives no other dates for the matters that he relies upon in
support of the proposition that he is at risk because of a blood feud in Iraq.
He does however consistently state that he left Iraq in December 2017.
Mr Sharif argues that the Appellant had accepted in the course of his
evidence that he had travelled through Germany and therefore the
evidence from the EURODAC search confirming that did not alter the
credibility of the Appellant’s account. Mr Sharif also argued that the
judge’s findings in relation to it being incredible that the Appellant would
not have had more knowledge about the details of the feud was an
irrational finding on the part of the judge.
10. For his part Mr Mills defends the judge’s decision and argues that the
dishonest statement that the Appellant had remained in December 2017
was clearly capable of affecting the credibility of the Appellant’s account.
I raised with him whether or not such a discrepancy could be treated as
determinative of the account given that there were no dates given in the
Appellant’s account of matters occurring in Iraq any later than 22 March
2016. Mr Mills appeared to accept that it was right to say that the
Appellant’s credibility was not determinatively decided by the discrepancy
of his whereabouts in March 2016. However Mr Mills points to the other
findings at paragraph 17 in support of the judge’s reasoning.
Discussion
11. I find no material error of law in the judge’s decision. The suggestion in
the grant of permission to appeal by Judge Keane that the judge had
4Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
arguably had regard to irrelevant considerations is difficult to sustain. The
Appellant has clearly given inconsistent evidence about his whereabouts,
on the one part insisting that he remained in Iraq in December 2017 but
incontrovertible evidence existing from the EURODAC search result that he
was present in Germany on 22 March 2016. These two items of evidence
simply cannot sit together. True it is that there are no details of the
Appellant’s account of any incidents that he has set out which are dated
any later than 22 March 2016, and therefore being shot at in ‘2016’ and
him departing Iraq prior to 22 March 2016 does not necessarily make his
account impossible to believe, but it is clearly a very significant matter
that the Appellant has lied about his continued presence in Iraq up to the
point of December 2017 and the judge was fully entitled to treat that as a
very significant matter. Whether or not she was entitled to treat it as
rendering ‘his entire account unreliable’ is moot.
12. However the judge does not stop there in her credibility findings because
she continues, as is clear at paragraph 17, to set out other reasons for
finding the Appellant’s account incredible. Whereas it may be expected
that a young person may not be as fully informed about the details of a
feud affecting his family and the wider tribe as might a fully-grown adult,
the judge’s point is that the Appellant decided, together with the
assistance of a relative, to leave Iraq because of this feud and the judge
was entitled to find that it was implausible that the Appellant knew so little
about the feud whereas it had been the specific cause of his decision to
leave the country. I find that it was not irrational for the judge to make
the findings that she did at paragraph 17. There are a number of reasons
therefore given by the judge for finding the Appellant’s account incredible
and I find that none of those reasons is vitiated by any error of law.
13. Judge Keane in granting permission did not comment upon the Appellant’s
actual second ground which was that the judge had failed to apply country
guidance relevant to the issue of obtaining documents for readmission and
residence in Iraq. However in the light of my decision that the judge’s
credibility findings are sustainable it is also sustainable that the Appellant
can have the assistance of family members in Iraq to obtain any
replacement documents that are needed to facilitate his return to, and
residence in Iraq.
Notice of Decision
The judge’s decision did not involve the making of any material error of
law.
I do not set aside the decision.
The Appellant’s appeal is dismissed.
Signed
Date 20.11.19
5Appeal Number: PA/00240/2019
Deputy Upper Tribunal Judge O’Ryan
Direction Regarding Anonymity – Rule 14 of the Tribunal Procedure
(Upper Tribunal) Rules 2008
Unless and until a Tribunal or court directs otherwise, the Appellant is granted
anonymity. No report of these proceedings shall directly or indirectly identify
him or any member of their family. This direction applies both to the Appellant
and to the Respondent. Failure to comply with this direction could lead to
contempt of court proceedings.
Signed
Date 20.11.19
Deputy Upper Tribunal Judge O’Ryan
6
Upper Tribunal
(Immigration and Asylum Chamber)
Appeal Number: PA/05945/2018
THE IMMIGRATION ACTS
Heard at Birmingham CJC
On 5 th July 2019
Decision & Reasons Promulgated
On 19 th August 2019
Before
DEPUTY UPPER TRIBUNAL JUDGE JUSS
Between
HA
(ANONYMITY DIRECTION MADE)
Appellant
and
THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE HOME DEPARTMENT
Respondent
Representation:
For the Appellant:
Mr J Howard (Solicitor)
For the Respondent: Mr D Mills (Senior HOPO)
DECISION AND REASONS
1.
This is an appeal against the determination of First-tier Tribunal Judge
Pacey, promulgated on 24 th June 2018, following a hearing at Birmingham
on 6 th June 2018. In the determination, the judge dismissed the appeal of
the Appellant, whereupon the Appellant subsequently applied for, and was
granted, permission to appeal to the Upper Tribunal, and thus the matter
comes before me.
The Appellant
© CROWN COPYRIGHT 2019Appeal Number: PA/05945/2018
2.
The Appellant is a male, a citizen of Iran, and was born on 22 nd July 1996.
He appealed against the decision of the Respondent dated 24 th April 2018
refusing his claim for asylum and humanitarian protection pursuant to
paragraph 339C of HC 395.
The Appellant’s Claim
3.
The essence of the Appellant’s claim is that he is a member of a particular
social group, because he is a gay Iranian man who would face persecution
if returned, and additionally he is also an atheist, who would be ill-treated
upon return as a non-religious person, which is forbidden in Iran.
The Judge’s Findings
4. The judge noted how the Appellant in his screening interview has said that
he held no religion and that he would be subject to persecution as a non-
religious person if returned to Iran. He made no mention at that stage
that he was also a gay person. During his asylum interview, however, he
stated that he was a danger also because he was a homosexual and
feared the government given that homosexuality was punishable by
death. He had not mentioned this at his screening interview because he
did not know anything about the country he was coming to. The Appellant
had then explained how he had a boyfriend in the UK by the name of [FS],
with whom he had been in relationship for about one and a half months.
He also had three serious relationships which he went on to describe in
evidence before the Tribunal. The judge did not find the Appellant to be
credible because the appellant’s explanation that he had not mentioned
his homosexuality during his screening interview, because he did not know
the country he was coming to, was not plausible. As the judge explained,
“if he did not know the UK approach to homosexuality ... he could not
have known if the UK adopted as punitive an approach to gay people as
did Iran.... For all he knew he could have been travelling from the frying
pan into the fire” (paragraph 68).
5. On the other hand, the judge observed that if the Appellant was aware of
the actual UK approach to homosexuality, “then there was no reason for
him not to have mentioned his sexuality at the screening interview”
(paragraph 69).
6. The judge was also not impressed by the witnesses before the Tribunal. In
short, the Appellant’s claim was rejected wholesale. The appeal was
dismissed.
Grounds of Application
7.
The grounds of application state that the judge had engaged in a material
error of law in relation to the evidence of a Miss [L] and that of Mr [S]
whose credibility had been wrongly impugned by the judge. There had
been apparently a discrepancy between to the oral and the written
2Appeal Number: PA/05945/2018
evidence of Miss [L], but this discrepancy had not been put to the witness,
and if this was so then this was contrary to the rules of natural justice.
8.
On 23 rd November 2018 permission to appeal was granted.
Submissions
9.
At the hearing before me on 5 th July 2019, the Appellant was represented
by Mr Howard, who adopted the grounds of application. He submitted that
if the judge was concerned about the discrepancy in the oral and written
evidence of Miss [L], then this should have been explored by the Tribunal,
because in her oral evidence, Miss [L] had said that she had “not met [F]”,
whereas in her written evidence she had said that “she also knew his
previous partner, [F]” (paragraph 34). Secondly, Mr Howard submitted
that if one looks at the evidence of Mr [S] (at page 14 of the Appellant’s
bundle). He makes it quite clear that he is the director of a voluntary
organisation called Persian LGBT Advisory Services, where it provides
“voluntary social activities for LGBT asylum seekers”. He explains that the
appellant had contacted him via Facebook on 9 th June 2016. He invited
the Appellant to meet with him, and after a conversation he had come to
the view that “I am aware the Appellant is openly active on Facebook page
which I would refer to as an online activist where he shares information on
LGBT community using his Facebook page...”. On that basis that the
judge was wrong to have impugned his credibility.
10. For his part, Mr Mills submitted that the issues that were before the judge,
both in relation to the Appellant’s atheism and his homosexual tendencies,
were not new issues. If evidence was collected by the Appellant between
the asylum interview and the Tribunal hearing, in a manner that the
Appellant himself chose to do, then he should have been prepared to deal
with it on the basis of oral testimony. These were not new points. The
witnesses were not people whose evidence had previously been accepted.
Both cases were simply black and white discrepancy cases where the
judge was entitled to say that she would not attach any significant weight
to such evidence, because as put before the Tribunal, the evidence was
not persuasive.
No Error of Law
11. I am satisfied that the making of the decision by the judge did not involve
the making of an error on a point of law (see Section 12(1) of TCEA 2007)
such that I should set aside the decision. My reasons are as follows. First,
it is simply not correct to say that the discrepancy in the oral and witness
statement evidence of Miss [L] was something that the judge should have
probed herself with a view to ascertaining exactly what Miss [L] knew
about Mr [F]. The judge noted that in her oral evidence Miss [L] stated she
was aware that the Appellant had a relationship in the UK “but had not
met [F]”. Then the judge noted how in her witness statement, Miss [L] had
stated that she became friends with the Appellant when she met him in
Calais at the “the jungle” in April 2016, and “when they became strong
3Appeal Number: PA/05945/2018
friends he told her of his fear of persecution and that he was an atheist.
She also knew his previous partner, [F]” (paragraph 34). It was for the
Appellant’s representative to probe this matter further. As the evidence
stood, the judge was entitled to conclude that “Miss [L] has also been
inconsistent in a written and oral account of whether she had met [F]”
(paragraph 78).
12. Second, as far as Mr [S]’s evidence is concerned, I note that he is a
director of the voluntary organisation called Persian LGBT Advisory
Services. He wrote in terms that he was “aware the Appellant is openly
active on Facebook page”. He had stated that “I have acknowledged that
the Appellant has made a strong relationship with the wider LGBT
communities ...”. He had further stated that “I have also seen that the
Appellant has participated openly at this year’s LGBT Pride with Christian
LGBT parade ...”. He ended his statement by declaring that “based on
information that has been provided by the Appellant I can confirm that he
is homosexual and would be subject of persecution...”. (See page 14 of
the Appellant’s bundle). The manner in which the judge dealt with this
evidence was one which was entirely open to her to do. What the judge
states is that she would “attach very little weight to Mr [S]’s evidence”
because “he said at the hearing that he had attended court since 2008 to
support gay asylum seekers”.
13. Nevertheless as the judge observed, “his support did not, on his own
evidence, comprise independent verification of each Appellant’s claim
since he took the claim of each at face value, entirely taking their word for
it without doing anything to verify their claim, in the way of what might be
termed ‘due diligence’. While he may well be well-meaning, the uncritical
nature of his support means it is of very little probative value” (paragraph
79).
14. There is nothing in this particular analysis of the judge’s detailed
explanation that sits ill at ease with what the witness himself states in his
statement of 4 th June 2018 (at page 14 of the Appellant’s bundle) when he
makes it clear that “I am aware” or that “I have acknowledged”. In any
event, what the judge is referring to is actually what Mr [S] himself said in
his evidence where he makes it clear that as a director of the voluntary
organisation he supports gay asylum seekers taking each claim at face
value. Accordingly, the decision of the judge in this particular case was
clear, comprehensive, and well-reasoned and there is no error of law in it.
Decision
15. The decision of the First-tier Tribunal did not involve the making of an
error of law. The decision shall stand.
16. An anonymity order is made.
17. The appeal is dismissed.
4Appeal Number: PA/05945/2018
Direction Regarding Anonymity – Rule 14 of the Tribunal Procedure
(Upper Tribunal) Rules 2008
Unless and until a Tribunal or court directs otherwise, the Appellant is granted
anonymity. No report of these proceedings shall directly or indirectly identify
him or any member of
their family.
This direction applies both to the Appellant and to the
Respondent. Failure to comply with this direction could lead to contempt of
court proceedings.
Signed
Dated
Deputy Upper Tribunal Judge Juss
15 th August 2019
5
